CNV-18460: virtctl download link (#54135)
openshift/openshift-docs: modules/virt-installing-virtctl-client.adoc

// Module included in the following assemblies:
//
// * virt/install/virt-installing-virtctl.adoc

:_content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="virt-installing-virtctl-client_{context}"]
= Installing the virtctl client on Linux, Windows, and macOS

> Download and install the `virtctl` client for your operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can download and install the `virtctl` client based on your operating system.
```

.Procedure

. Navigate to *Virtualization > Overview* in the {product-title} web console.

> . Click the *Download virtctl* link on the upper right corner of the page and download the `virtctl` client for your operating system.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the *Download virtctl* link, which is on the upper right corner of the page, and download the `virtctl` client for your operating system.
```
IBM Style suggests to provide additional descriptive info when describing a location on a page
https://www.ibm.com/docs/en/ibm-style?topic=word-usage#u

. Install `virtctl`:

* For Linux:

.. Decompress the archive file:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ tar -xvf <virtctl-version-distribution.arch>.tar.gz
----

.. Run the following command to make the `virtctl` binary executable:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ chmod +x <path/virtctl-file-name>
----

.. Move the `virtctl` binary to a directory in your `PATH` environment variable.
+
You can check your path by running the following command:
+
[source,terminal]
----
$ echo $PATH
----

> .. Set the `KUBECONFIG` environment variable:

Author: @dominikholler Please review for [GH#53361](https://github.com/openshift/openshift-docs/issues/53361) .
